Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
Today we're talking about skewness.
All right.
So here we've got a normal distribution and looks lovely looks very symmetrical.
But the thing is that not all distributions are that nice.
Not all distributions are that symmetrical.
Sometimes you might get distributions which look like this.
And here we've got two distributions which are skewed in opposite directions.
You've probably heard of skewed as before and if you have an here's a blitz quiz which one of you of
these distributions you think is left skewed and which one of them do you think is right skewed.
All right so we have your answer and the correct answer is the one where here is a left skewed or negatively
skewed the one with the longer tail on the left and the one where here is a right skewed or positively
skewed with the longer tell in the right.
And a lot of people get this wrong.
A lot of the time because they look at where the hump is and they think OK so the hump is on the right.
So this is a right skewed distribution.
So it looks like has been dragged towards the right and therefore has rights.
And this one looks like has been dragged towards the left and that is an incorrect way of thinking or
Moreover leads to incorrect language and sometimes even incorrect insights.
The reason why this is called the left skewed distribution is because the tail is on the left you need
to look at where the tail is and the underlying reason behind that is what we spoke about previously
that you need to in terms of distributions.
They're not attached to the chart.
You don't have to have a char to have a distribution.
A distribution is attached to the data itself.
So you have some underlying data that is driving this chart that is feeding into this chart.
Well distribution is a description of that data or is there is something that is associated is a function
that's associated with that data itself.
And when you think about how does this chart come to be.
Well why is there a longer left tell.
That's because everything over here is fine is as it should be it's pretty much symmetrical.
But then you have a lot of outliers on the left.
For example you might have a lot of people with very low I don't know whatever that whatever we're measuring
on this was going to be easier.
So for instance here you have if this is balancing a bank account you have people with probably not
the best distribution of all balance and Buy.com because you have a lot of people with lower balances.
But hypothetically or let's say this is a distribution of income.
How much people are earning their way and their salaries.
So you have people who are earning low salaries and you have people who are earning average salary.
You have people earning high salaries but then you have a lot of outliers who are earning very high
salaries.
If we're measuring salaries in one a company like the c o The executives and so on they might be earning
a lot lot higher salaries than everybody else and therefore the distribution looks like this.
So when you think of the underlying data things here are OK they're fine.
What is different is what is happening on the tail side.
So there are a lot of outliers in your data on the tail and that's where the skewness the term comes
from that your data is skewed to the right meaning that there's outliers on the right.
And in this case your data is skewed to the left.
There's outliers on the left and then it's this term is just simply also assigned to the chart itself
so you still talk about distributions skewness but by looking at the chart rather than by looking at
the underlying data.
But the term itself doesn't change.
So if you think of it in that way you'll never be confused if you think of.
Okay so what's the underlying data doing in here.
We have extra outliers on the left here we have outliers on the right so this one is left skewed or
negatively skewed this one is positive right skewed positively skewed.
So there we go that's a quick note on skewness and where it comes from.
It's all about the underlying data and hopefully this quick tip will help you always be on top of your
feet when you are for instance presenting to executives and when or when you're listening to presentations
and when you're just simply speaking the statistics language.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.